29 CFR 1910.269 Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.
Source: eCFR https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-29/section-1910.269
Display date: 2026-08-13. US Government work, 17 USC 105.
Extract: (a)(1) Application (including the Subpart S carve-out) and (c) Job briefing.

(a) General —

(1) Application.

(i) This section covers the operation and maintenance of electric power generation, control, transformation, transmission, and distribution lines and equipment. These provisions apply to:

(A) Power generation, transmission, and distribution installations, including related equipment for the purpose of communication or metering that are accessible only to qualified employees;

Note to paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A):
The types of installations covered by this paragraph include the generation, transmission, and distribution installations of electric utilities, as well as equivalent installations of industrial establishments. Subpart S of this part covers supplementary electric generating equipment that is used to supply a workplace for emergency, standby, or similar purposes only.

(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, § 1910.269 of this part does not apply:

(A) To construction work, as defined in § 1910.12 of this part, except for line-clearance tree trimming and work involving electric power generation installations as specified in § 1926.950(a)(3) of this chapter; or

(B) To electrical installations, electrical safety-related work practices, or electrical maintenance considerations covered by subpart S of this part.

(c) Job briefing —

(1) Before each job.

(i) In assigning an employee or a group of employees to perform a job, the employer shall provide the employee in charge of the job with all available information that relates to the determination of existing characteristics and conditions required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(ii) The employer shall ensure that the employee in charge conducts a job briefing that meets paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this section with the employees involved before they start each job.

(2) Subjects to be covered. The briefing shall cover at least the following subjects: hazards associated with the job, work procedures involved, special precautions, energy-source controls, and personal protective equipment requirements.

(3) Number of briefings.

(i) If the work or operations to be performed during the work day or shift are repetitive and similar, at least one job briefing shall be conducted before the start of the first job of each day or shift.

(ii) Additional job briefings shall be held if significant changes, which might affect the safety of the employees, occur during the course of the work.

(4) Extent of briefing.

(i) A brief discussion is satisfactory if the work involved is routine and if the employees, by virtue of training and experience, can reasonably be expected to recognize and avoid the hazards involved in the job.

(ii) A more extensive discussion shall be conducted:

(A) If the work is complicated or particularly hazardous, or

(B) If the employee cannot be expected to recognize and avoid the hazards involved in the job.

(5) Working alone. An employee working alone need not conduct a job briefing. However, the employer shall ensure that the tasks to be performed are planned as if a briefing were required.
